Documentation Restructuring (#4139)
OpenDDS/OpenDDS: docs/building/cmake.rst

This package bridges the gap between the MPC build system used by OpenDDS and CMake-based projects by providing :ref:`imported library targets <cmake-libraries>` and the ability to add IDL to a target using :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources`.

************
Requirements
************

CMake version 3.3.2 or greater is required to use the CMake package, but some some features require newer versions.

*******************************
Using the OpenDDS CMake Package
*******************************

Examples
========

Developer’s Guide Messenger Example
-----------------------------------

For a simple quick-start example of a ``CMakeLists.txt`` using OpenDDS with CMake see the :ghfile:`Developer’s Guide Messenger example <DevGuideExamples/DCPS/Messenger/CMakeLists.txt>`.
The following instructions show how to configure and build it:

.. tab:: Linux, macOS, BSDs, etc.

  Make sure the environment is setup by using ``source setenv.sh``.

  .. code:: bash

     cd DevGuideExamples/DCPS/Messenger
     mkdir build
     cd build
     cmake ..
     cmake --build .
     perl run_test.pl

.. tab:: Windows

  Make sure the environment is setup by using ``call setenv.cmd``.

>   The following assumes Visual Studio 2017 using 64-bit architecture (adjust the CMake ``-G`` parameter if using something different).
> 
>   .. code:: bat
> 
>      cd DevGuideExamples\DCPS\Messenger
>      mkdir build
>      cd build
>      cmake -G "Visual Studio 15 2017 Win64" ..

Reviewer: ```suggestion

  .. code:: bat

     cd DevGuideExamples\DCPS\Messenger
     mkdir build
     cd build
     cmake ..
```

Defaults should work?

  A function to help when using :ref:`cmake-install-import-runtime-artifacts`.
  The variable to create in the caller's scope that will contain the list of all targets passed and their ACE, TAO, and OpenDDS dependencies.

  .. versionadded:: 3.20

Variables
=========

Package Options
---------------

These variables can be used to override default behavior of the CMake package.

.. cmake:var:: OPENDDS_CMAKE_VERBOSE

  If ``TRUE``, then log detailed status information at configure-time.
  The default for this is ``FALSE``.

.. cmake:var:: OPENDDS_DEFAULT_NESTED

  If ``TRUE``, then :term:`topic types <topic type>` must be declared explicitly using :ref:`annotations <xtypes--indicating-which-types-can-be-topic-types>`.
  The default for this is ``TRUE``.

  This can also be controlled on a finer level by passing ``--default-nested`` or ``--no-default-nested`` to :cmake:func:`opendds_target_sources(OPENDDS_IDL_OPTIONS)`.
  For example:

  .. code:: cmake

     add_library(messenger)
     opendds_target_sources(messenger
       PUBLIC
         Messenger.idl
         OPENDDS_IDL_OPTIONS --no-default-nested
     )

.. cmake:var:: OPENDDS_FILENAME_ONLY_INCLUDES

>   Setting this to ``TRUE`` tells OpenDDS’s IDL compiler to strip path information from ``#include`` lines in generated files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Setting this to ``TRUE`` tells OpenDDS's IDL compiler to strip path information from ``#include`` lines in generated files.
```
